# Growth Analytics

Analysis on campaign performance and attribution modelling

## Campaign performance

#### Define key 2 metrics that will represent the performance of that dataset (just define, so please provide metric name, calculation, and the business definition)

  **Assumptions**:
    - I am considering the **demo booked** as leads (potential client)
    - I am considering the Users -- > Lead as a separate metric as Unique user to lead conversion
    - I am considering the Uniques as unique users came through specific channel

  Three metrics that can represent the dataset are as follow:  
    
    - Metric Name: CPL (Cost per lead)  
    Calculation: Ad Spend / Unique leads (demo booked)
    Business definition: The amount we spend on a specific channel to acquire a lead
    
    - Metric Name : User --> Lead Conversion 
    Calculation: No of leads (demo booked) / Unique Users 
    Business definition: How many leads have been generated by uniques users who came through specific channel
    
    - Metric Name : Cost Per Unique User
    Calculation: Ad Spend / Unique Users
    Business definition: The amount we spend on a marketing channel to be reached (any action) by a unique user

#### Are there any other data points (dimensions & measures) missing in the dataset, that would be much more beneficial?  

Following are the dimension and measures are missing in the dataset that would be more beneficial:  
  
  1. Campaign
  2. Medium
  3. Impressions
  4. Clicks
  5. Conversions (subjective to business goal)
  6. Revenue
  
  If above dimensions and metrics were available, we would have better understand the performance of our campaigns and does better channel optimization with respect to cost.  

For example: We could use metrics like **CPM, CTR, ROI, ROAS, ARPU and CAC** to see which channels are more profitable and which channels requires more attention with better audiences by reviewing these metrics within a certain timeframe and historially and allocate the marketing budget accordingly within different types of mediums.  

#### Are there any data quality issues? If yes, please list them and propose solutions how to solve them.

  1. If we visualize the data from start to finish timefram, we have missing dates which could be due to the fact that we may have paused our marketing efforts in that time. **Solution** In case we didn't we would need to check our data pipeline and stitch the missing to analyse the whole history.
  2. Inconsentent Data/Wrongly attributed data  
      - No ad spend and no unique users available but we have leads coming in (demo booked). That is not possible in my opinion. **Solution** In this case we would check our attribution and pipeline to fix that inconsistency.  
      - For some paid channels (facebook_paid_ad), we have zero ad spend but new unique users came. That is also not possible. **Solution** In this case also we will check with our stitching if users are going into wrong buckets and also getting attributed to wrong channels.  

#### What general trends do you see?
  - Cost per lead is higher for LinkedIn Ads
  - Conversion Rate (Unique users to Leads) initially at start was better for facebook paid ads but it went down later even after spending more on facebook ads (CPL remained consistent)
  - We are spending generally more on Facebook, Google, LinkedIn & Bing
  - Our conversion rate is higher from Affiliate sources and our partnerships are going well with respect to conversion (users to booked demo)
  - But, CPL wise Google is performing better
  - There was a big jump in unique users within Oct 1 to Oct 10 and majorly users came from longtail, Facebook, Organic and Google but demo booked (leads) were booked within same timeframe were higher from **Other**, **Facebook**, **Organic** & **Google** but rarely from **longtail**.
  - We need to optimize our target audiences for LinkedIn

Came to above conclusions using these --> 
  [Graphs.pdf](https://github.com/faisalmaqbool94/growth-analytics/files/9727428/results.pdf)

#### What channel(s) are the most promising? Why?

  - **Google** & **Affiliate & Partnerships (subjective to how much commision we are giving to our affiliate sources)** were our most promising channel since it had the lowest CPL and remained consistent historically and their conversion rate was higher.  
  - **Other** channel has very low ad spend but good conversion rate and low CPL.

#### What channel(s) we should invest in more/less? Why?
  
  - We should invest more on Google and Affiliate/Partnerships and try to optimize the cost and commission that we are giving to affilates. Furthermore, we should spend less on Facebook and LinkedIn due to higher cost and less conversion rate and try to optimize respective audiences. 

#### What channel is the most promising for our type of business and audience we have?

  - Google and LinkedIN should be most promising for our type of business and audience since those two platforms can provide better audience for a B2B business models and more reach to startups and enterprises. Not facebook and other social because that type of audience is not usually avialble on social platforms. 

## Attribution modeling

#### What attribution model do you propose for our business? Why?

Following attribution models will best useful for our business and audiences
  - Time-decay Attribution: Since we want to scale to startups and enterprise businesses (B2B) and help them hire globally, it has a bigger cycle in the funnel (sales cycle) till conversion where the most recent touchpoints tend to be the most influential in the conversion process
  - Multi-touch Attribution: Since we have calculators/estimators (employer cost, comparisons) available for different regions on the site and we are running marketing along with partnerships and affilate programs. Multi-touch attribution would help us understand our user behaviors better and optimize our branding and marketing accordinglyl. 

#### How would you solve the problem of having 'other' as a channel?
We can segragate the traffic into multiple mediums for 'others' channel and divide them into different buckets for display, organic content, social and categorize them accordingly and optimize. 
